utilities/README.md, before:

# This image belongs to a larger project called Bioinformatics Docker Images Project (http://pegi3s.github.io/dockerfiles)

# List of utilities
This Docker image contains different utilities and scripts that may be useful in different scenarios. You can list the utilities by running: `docker run --rm pegi3s/utilities help`.

These utilities are alphabetically listed bellow along with comprehensive explanations. To show the help of a specific utility, run `docker run --rm pegi3s/utilities <utility_name> --help`.

The list of utilities is presented below, please refer to [this manual](https://github.com/pegi3s/dockerfiles/blob/master/utilities/MANUAL.md) for detailed instructions and examples.

- `backup_file`: creates a backup file of the file passed as parameter. By default, it adds the extension \".bak\" (or \".bak1\", \".bak2\", and so on, if a file with any of the previous extensions exist).
- `batch_fasta_remove_line_breaks`: removes the line breaks of sequences in one or more FASTA files.
- `batch_fasta_remove_stop_codons`: modifies the sequences in one or more FASTA files to remove the stop codons (TAA, TAG and TGA) at the end of sequences. Note that if the input files have line breaks separating the sequences, they should be removed using the `fasta_remove_line_breaks` script. Otherwise, stop codons will be removed from each sequence line.
- `check_multiple_3`: verifies if all sequences in a FASTA file are multiple of 3. If so, the exit code is 0. Otherwise, the exit code is 1. Note that the exit code can be captured with `$?`. Note that if the input file have line breaks separating the sequences, they should be removed using the `fasta_remove_line_breaks` script. Otherwise, the script may produce unpredictable result.
- `count_dockerhub_pulls`: lists the number of pulls of each image for a given Docker Hub user.
- `deinterleave_fastq`: deinterleaves a FASTQ file of paired reads into two FASTQ files. Optionally, the output files can be compressed using GZip.
- `fasta_remove_line_breaks`: removes the line breaks of sequences in a FASTA file.
- `fasta_remove_sequences_with_in_frame_stops_or_n`: removes the sequences containing N's or in-frame STOP codons (TAA, TAG and TGA) and writes the output into a new file.
- `fasta_remove_stop_codons`: modifies the sequences in a FASTA file to remove the stop codons (TAA, TAG and TGA) at the end of sequences. Note that if the input file have line breaks separating the sequences, they should be removed using the `fasta_remove_line_breaks` script. Otherwise, stop codons will be removed from each sequence line.
- `fastq_to_fasta`: converts a FASTQ file into a FASTA file.
- `rmlastline`: removes the last line of one or more files. Note that this command modifies the files passed as parameters.

# Changelog

The `latest` tag contains always the most recent version.

## [0.1.0] - 09/05/2018
- Initial `utilities` image containing the `rmlastline` and `deinterleave_fastq` utilities.

## [0.2.0] - 11/05/2018
- Add the `fastq_to_fasta` utility.
- Add `--help` parameter to all utilities in order to show the usage instructions.

## [0.3.0] - 6/11/2019
- Add the `count_dockerhub_pulls` utility.

## [0.4.0] - 8/01/2020
- Add the `fasta_remove_line_breaks` utility.

## [0.5.0] - 23/01/2020
- Add the `batch_fasta_remove_line_breaks` utility.

## [0.6.0] - 23/01/2020
- Add the `fasta_remove_stop_codons` and `batch_fasta_remove_stop_codons` utilities.

## [0.7.0] - 24/01/2020
- Add the `fasta_remove_sequences_with_in_frame_stops_or_n` utility.

## [0.8.0] - 27/01/2020
- Add the `backup_file` utility.

## [0.9.0] - 15/09/2020
- Add the `check_multiple_3` utility.

Commit message:

Add script to list docker images and tags

utilities/README.md, after:

# This image belongs to a larger project called Bioinformatics Docker Images Project (http://pegi3s.github.io/dockerfiles)

# List of utilities
This Docker image contains different utilities and scripts that may be useful in different scenarios. You can list the utilities by running: `docker run --rm pegi3s/utilities help`.

These utilities are alphabetically listed bellow along with comprehensive explanations. To show the help of a specific utility, run `docker run --rm pegi3s/utilities <utility_name> --help`.

The list of utilities is presented below, please refer to [this manual](https://github.com/pegi3s/dockerfiles/blob/master/utilities/MANUAL.md) for detailed instructions and examples.

- `backup_file`: creates a backup file of the file passed as parameter. By default, it adds the extension \".bak\" (or \".bak1\", \".bak2\", and so on, if a file with any of the previous extensions exist).
- `batch_fasta_remove_line_breaks`: removes the line breaks of sequences in one or more FASTA files.
- `batch_fasta_remove_stop_codons`: modifies the sequences in one or more FASTA files to remove the stop codons (TAA, TAG and TGA) at the end of sequences. Note that if the input files have line breaks separating the sequences, they should be removed using the `fasta_remove_line_breaks` script. Otherwise, stop codons will be removed from each sequence line.
- `check_multiple_3`: verifies if all sequences in a FASTA file are multiple of 3. If so, the exit code is 0. Otherwise, the exit code is 1. Note that the exit code can be captured with `$?`. Note that if the input file have line breaks separating the sequences, they should be removed using the `fasta_remove_line_breaks` script. Otherwise, the script may produce unpredictable result.
- `deinterleave_fastq`: deinterleaves a FASTQ file of paired reads into two FASTQ files. Optionally, the output files can be compressed using GZip.
- `dockerhub_count_pulls`: lists the number of pulls of each image for a given Docker Hub user.
- `dockerhub_list_images_with_tags`: lists all the images and tags for a given Docker Hub user.
- `fasta_remove_line_breaks`: removes the line breaks of sequences in a FASTA file.
- `fasta_remove_sequences_with_in_frame_stops_or_n`: removes the sequences containing N's or in-frame STOP codons (TAA, TAG and TGA) and writes the output into a new file.
- `fasta_remove_stop_codons`: modifies the sequences in a FASTA file to remove the stop codons (TAA, TAG and TGA) at the end of sequences. Note that if the input file have line breaks separating the sequences, they should be removed using the `fasta_remove_line_breaks` script. Otherwise, stop codons will be removed from each sequence line.
- `fastq_to_fasta`: converts a FASTQ file into a FASTA file.
- `rmlastline`: removes the last line of one or more files. Note that this command modifies the files passed as parameters.

# Changelog

The `latest` tag contains always the most recent version.

## [0.1.0] - 09/05/2018
- Initial `utilities` image containing the `rmlastline` and `deinterleave_fastq` utilities.

## [0.2.0] - 11/05/2018
- Add the `fastq_to_fasta` utility.
- Add `--help` parameter to all utilities in order to show the usage instructions.

## [0.3.0] - 6/11/2019
- Add the `count_dockerhub_pulls` utility.

## [0.4.0] - 8/01/2020
- Add the `fasta_remove_line_breaks` utility.

## [0.5.0] - 23/01/2020
- Add the `batch_fasta_remove_line_breaks` utility.

## [0.6.0] - 23/01/2020
- Add the `fasta_remove_stop_codons` and `batch_fasta_remove_stop_codons` utilities.

## [0.7.0] - 24/01/2020
- Add the `fasta_remove_sequences_with_in_frame_stops_or_n` utility.

## [0.8.0] - 27/01/2020
- Add the `backup_file` utility.

## [0.9.0] - 15/09/2020
- Add the `check_multiple_3` utility.

## [0.10.0] - 30/10/2020
- Add the `dockerhub_list_images_with_tags` utility.
- Rename `count_dockerhub_pulls` to `dockerhub_count_pulls`.
