cds2gff3-maker/README.md, before:

# This image belongs to a larger project called Bioinformatics Docker Images Project (http://pegi3s.github.io/dockerfiles)
## (Please note that the original software licenses still apply)

This image allows the creation of a GFF3 file from a FASTA file containing CDS (one or more sequences) and a genome FASTA file.

# Using cds2gff3-maker image in Linux

You should adapt and run the following command:
```
docker run --rm -v /tmp:/tmp -v /var/run/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock -v /your/data/dir:/data pegi3s/cds2gff3-maker /data/CDS /data/genome /data/output.gff3
```

In this command, you should replace:
- `/your/data/dir` to point to the directory that contains the input files you want to convert.
- `<CDS>` to the name of the CDS FASTA file (containing one or more sequences)
- `<genome>` to the name of the genome FASTA file.
- `<output.gff3>` to the name of the output GFF3 file.

By default, the image produces only one annotation for each input sequence in the input CDS FASTA file. In case you want all annotations you can add the `--give-all` flag to the above command. Please, bbe careful since this option is mainly for exploratory purposes.

This script requires Docker since it runs scripts and commands from other images (`pegi3s/utilities` and `pegi3s/splign-compart`) to do its job. Thus, this script requires additional parameters in the `docker run` command to allow the docker container to run other containers using the host's docker:
- `-v /tmp:/tmp`: mounts the host's `/tmp` directory in the same path.
- `-v /var/run/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock`: mounts the `docker.sock` to give access to the host's docker.

By default, the scripts use the latest versions of those Docker images. To change them, add the following environment variables to the `docker run` command:
- `--env VERSION_PEGI3S_UTILITIES=0.22.0`.
- `--env VERSION_PEGI3S_SPLIGN_COMPART=1.2.1`.

## Debugging

For debugging purposes, add the following environment variable to the `docker run` command so that the temporary directory with the intermediate files is kept after the script execution: `--env CDS2GFF3_KEEP_TEMPORARY_FILES="yes"`

# Test data

To test the `pegi3s/cds2gff3-maker` image, it is possible to use [this test data](http://evolution6.i3s.up.pt/static/pegi3s/dockerfiles/cds2gff3-maker/test-data-cds2gff3-maker.zip). After downloading and unzipping the test data, you should simply run (remember to change the `/your/data/dir` path):

```
docker run --rm -v /tmp:/tmp -v /var/run/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock -v /your/data/dir:/data pegi3s/cds2gff3-maker /data/CDS /data/genome /data/output.gff3
```

The ZIP also contains an example of the GFF3 file that should be obtained (`expected-output.gff3`).

# Changelog

The `latest` tag contains always the most recent version.

## [1.1.0] - 25/01/2023
- Since this version, the script produces only one annotation and the new `--give-all` flag must be used to produce all annotations (this is an exploratory feature so be careful).
- So far, some sequence headers in both genome and CDS could led to failures in `splign-compart`. This, in this version, sequence headers are modified to fix this issues.

## [1.0.0] - 05/12/2022
- Initial version.

Commit message:

Updates cds2gff3-maker to docker 29.0.1

cds2gff3-maker/README.md, after:

# This image belongs to a larger project called Bioinformatics Docker Images Project (http://pegi3s.github.io/dockerfiles)
## (Please note that the original software licenses still apply)

This image allows the creation of a GFF3 file from a FASTA file containing CDS (one or more sequences) and a genome FASTA file.

> [!WARNING]
> This image runs Docker in Docker. Users that are already running Docker 29 should start using the image with the `pegi3s/cds2gff3-maker:1.1.0-docker29.0.1`, while users that did not yet update their Docker version to Docker 29 should use the image with the `pegi3s/cds2gff3-maker:1.1.0` tag. Starting with version `pegi3s/cds2gff3-maker:1.1.0-docker29.0.1`, from now on, only images that are compatible with Docker 29 or above will be released. You can check your Docker version by running the command: docker --version".

# Using cds2gff3-maker image in Linux

You should adapt and run the following command:
```
docker run --rm -v /tmp:/tmp -v /var/run/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock -v /your/data/dir:/data pegi3s/cds2gff3-maker /data/CDS /data/genome /data/output.gff3
```

In this command, you should replace:
- `/your/data/dir` to point to the directory that contains the input files you want to convert.
- `<CDS>` to the name of the CDS FASTA file (containing one or more sequences)
- `<genome>` to the name of the genome FASTA file.
- `<output.gff3>` to the name of the output GFF3 file.

By default, the image produces only one annotation for each input sequence in the input CDS FASTA file. In case you want all annotations you can add the `--give-all` flag to the above command. Please, bbe careful since this option is mainly for exploratory purposes.

This script requires Docker since it runs scripts and commands from other images (`pegi3s/utilities` and `pegi3s/splign-compart`) to do its job. Thus, this script requires additional parameters in the `docker run` command to allow the docker container to run other containers using the host's docker:
- `-v /tmp:/tmp`: mounts the host's `/tmp` directory in the same path.
- `-v /var/run/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock`: mounts the `docker.sock` to give access to the host's docker.

By default, the scripts use the latest versions of those Docker images. To change them, add the following environment variables to the `docker run` command:
- `--env VERSION_PEGI3S_UTILITIES=0.22.0`.
- `--env VERSION_PEGI3S_SPLIGN_COMPART=1.2.1`.

## Debugging

For debugging purposes, add the following environment variable to the `docker run` command so that the temporary directory with the intermediate files is kept after the script execution: `--env CDS2GFF3_KEEP_TEMPORARY_FILES="yes"`

# Test data

To test the `pegi3s/cds2gff3-maker` image, it is possible to use [this test data](http://evolution6.i3s.up.pt/static/pegi3s/dockerfiles/cds2gff3-maker/test-data-cds2gff3-maker.zip). After downloading and unzipping the test data, you should simply run (remember to change the `/your/data/dir` path):

```
docker run --rm -v /tmp:/tmp -v /var/run/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock -v /your/data/dir:/data pegi3s/cds2gff3-maker /data/CDS /data/genome /data/output.gff3
```

The ZIP also contains an example of the GFF3 file that should be obtained (`expected-output.gff3`).

# Changelog

The `latest` tag contains always the most recent version.

## [1.1.0] - 25/01/2023
- Since this version, the script produces only one annotation and the new `--give-all` flag must be used to produce all annotations (this is an exploratory feature so be careful).
- So far, some sequence headers in both genome and CDS could led to failures in `splign-compart`. This, in this version, sequence headers are modified to fix this issues.

## [1.0.0] - 05/12/2022
- Initial version.
