# This image belongs to a larger project called Bioinformatics Docker Images Project (http://pegi3s.github.io/dockerfiles)
## (Please note that the original software licenses still apply)

This image facilitates the usage of [Picard](https://broadinstitute.github.io/picard/), a set of command line tools for manipulating high-throughput sequencing data and formats such as SAM/BAM/CRAM and VCF.

This toolset can be used to perform the following operations:

- Base Calling: tools that process sequencing machine data and detect sequencing level attributes.
- Diagnostics and Quality Control: tools that collect sequencing quality related and comparative metrics.
- Genotyping Arrays Manipulation: tools that manipulate data generated by genotyping arrays.
- Intervals Manipulation: tools that process genomic intervals in various formats.
- Read Data Manipulation: tools that manipulate read data in SAM, BAM or CRAM format.
- Reference: tools that analyze and manipulate FASTA format references.
- Variant Evaluation and Refinement: tools that evaluate and refine variant calls.
- Variant Filtering: tools that filter variants by annotating the FILTER column.
- Variant Manipulation: tools that manipulate variant call format (VCF) data.
- Other: Miscellaneous tools.

To see `Picard` options, just run `docker run --rm pegi3s/picard -h`.

# Using the Picard image in Linux
You should adapt and run the following command: `docker run --rm -v /your/data/dir:/data pegi3s/picard <picard-application-name> <options>`

In this command, you should replace:
- `/your/data/dir` to point to the directory that contains the input files you want to analyze.
- `<picard-application-name>` to the name of the `Picard` application you want to use.
- `<options> ` with the specific options of the `Picard` application. These options will include the input/output files, which should be referenced under `/data/`.

For instance, to clean a SAM file, you should run: `docker run --rm -v /your/data/dir:/data pegi3s/picard CleanSam -I /data/aln-pe.sam -O /data/aln-pe_cleaned.sam`

# Test data
To test the previous command, the input SAM file used is available [here](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/pegi3s/dockerfiles/master/picard/2.21.5/test_data/aln-pe.sam).

# Using the Picard image in Windows

Please note that data must be under the same drive than the Docker Toolbox installation (usually `C:`) and in a folder with write permissions (e.g. `C:/Users/User_name/`).

As in the Linux case, to run an application, you should adapt and run the following command: `docker run --rm -v "/c/Users/User_name/dir/":/data pegi3s/picard <picard-application-name> <options>`
